Olga A. Lyubashina, Ivan B. Sivachenko, Aleksandr A. Mikhalkin,
Impaired visceral pain-related functions of the midbrain periaqueductal gray in rats with colitis,
Brain Research Bulletin,
Volume 182,
2022,
Pages 12-25,
ISSN 0361-9230,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainresbull.2022.02.002.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0361923022000351)
Abstract: The midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) is a key structure involved in the supraspinal modulation of pain. Previous studies have reported the association of gut inflammation-triggered chronic abdominal pain with structural and neuronal alterations within the PAG. However, whether PAG-executed visceral nociception processing and descending modulation are altered in gut pathology is not known. We used c-Fos immunohistochemistry and extracellular microelectrode recording in urethane-anesthetized male Wistar rats to evaluate the colitis-induced changes in visceral pain-related neuronal properties of the PAG and its descending outflow to visceral nociceptive neurons of the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM). Analysis of c-Fos protein expression in inflamed animals has shown diminished activation of the lateral and ventrolateral PAG columns by noxious colorectal distension (CRD), although the nonstimulated c-Fos labeling in these PAG subdivisions was enhanced compared with that in controls. Microelectrode recording in the ventrolateral PAG revealed a colitis-elicited decrease in the proportion of CRD-excited neurons accompanied by an increase in the number of unresponsive cells and weakened reactions to the stimulation of CRD-inhibited PAG units. Colonic inflammation has also been found to cause a shift in the effects of ventrolateral PAG electrostimulation on CRD-excited CVLM neurons from being mostly inhibitory under normal conditions to excitatory in colitis. These findings identify impaired PAG functioning in ascending and descending visceral nociception control that may contribute to gut injury-associated visceral hyperalgesia. The data obtained can benefit a better understanding of the supraspinal mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of postinflammatory chronic abdominal pain.
Keywords: Periaqueductal gray; Visceral pain; Colitis; Neuronal activity; Descending modulation; Caudal ventrolateral medulla

Marina Vetrova, Sara Lodi, Lindsey Rateau, Gregory Patts, Elena Blokhina, Vladimir Palatkin, Tatiana Yaroslavtseva, Olga Toussova, Natalia Bushara, Sally Bendiks, Natalia Gnatienko, Evgeny Krupitsky, Dmitry Lioznov, Jeffrey H Samet, Karsten Lunze,
Stigma and ART initiation among people with HIV and a lifetime history of illicit drug use in Saint-Petersburg, Russia–A prospective cohort analysis,
International Journal of Drug Policy,
Volume 102,
2022,
103600,
ISSN 0955-3959,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drugpo.2022.103600.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0955395922000202)
Abstract: Background
HIV-positive people who inject drugs (PWID) are stigmatized and face more challenges in accessing ART. The natural course of stigma and its role on ART initiation in this population is unclear. We examined 1] whether HIV stigma changes over time and 2] whether HIV and substance use stigma are associated with ART initiation in a prospective cohort of HIV-positive PWID in St. Petersburg, Russia.
Methods
We used data from 165 HIV-positive PWID who were ART-naïve at enrollment andgeneralized estimating equations to assess changes in HIV stigma between baseline, 12- and 24-month study visits. Logistic regression estimated associations of HIV stigma and substance use stigma with ART initiation. All models were adjusted for gender, age, CD4 count, duration of HIV diagnosis, recent (past 30-day) drug use and depressive symptoms.
Results
Participants characteristics were the following: median age of 34 (Q1; Q3: 30; 37) years; 30% female; 28% with CD4 count <350; 44% reported recent drug use. During the study period, 31% initiated ART and the median time between HIV diagnosis and ART initiation was 8.5 years (Q1; Q3: 4.68; 13.61). HIV stigma scores decreased yearly by 0.57 (95% CI -1.36, 0.22). More than half (27/47 [57.4%]) of participants who were eligible for ART initiation per local ART guidelines did not initiate therapy. Total HIV stigma and substance use stigma scores were not associated with ART initiation (AOR 0.99, 95%CI 0.94–1.04; AOR 1.01, 95%CI 0.96–1.05, respectively).
Conclusion
In this Russian cohort of HIV-positive, ART-naïve PWID, stigma did not change over time and was not associated with ART initiation. Addressing stigma alone is unlikely to increase ART initiation rates in this population. Reducing further existing structural barriers, e.g., by promoting equal access to ART and the value of substance-use treatment for ART treatment success should complement stigma-reduction approaches.
Keywords: Stigma; Antiretroviral therapy; Linkage to care; People who inject drugs; Substance use disorders; Russia

N.B. Khalezova, A. Capasso, E.V. Boeva, L.V. Gutova, V.V. Rassokhin, N.G. Neznanov, N.A. Belyakov, J.L. Brown, R.J. DiClemente,
Situational and motivational factors associated with unhealthy alcohol use among Russian women with HIV and hepatitis C Virus co-infection,
Drug and Alcohol Dependence Reports,
Volume 3,
2022,
100053,
ISSN 2772-7246,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dadr.2022.100053.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2772724622000312)
Abstract: Introduction
Alcohol use is prevalent among Russian women with HIV and hepatitis C Virus (HCV) co-infection despite alcohol's known harmful health effects for this population. Identifying factors that facilitate continued unhealthy alcohol use is critical to developing effective alcohol reduction interventions. This study assessed situational and motivational factors associated with unhealthy alcohol use among HIV/HCV co-infected women in clinical care in St. Petersburg, Russia.
Methods
Guided by the motivational model for alcohol use, we conducted 30 semi-structured interviews with women living with HIV/HCV co-infection to identify situational and motivational factors associated with unhealthy drinking and barriers and facilitators to abstaining. Interviews were recorded and analyzed using a thematic analysis approach.
Results
Despite awareness of the health risks associated with alcohol use, many women reported heavy episodic drinking, particularly in social situations. A key motive for drinking was coping with negative emotions triggered by stressful situations, such as work- and family-related conflicts. Key situational factors included drinking with family and friends and in social situations. Women who endorsed negative drinking coping motives were the most motivated to stop drinking. Health concerns were also cited as reasons to stop drinking; however, few women reported that their doctors recommended that they abstain.
Conclusions
Several situational and motivational facilitators of alcohol use and barriers to alcohol reduction were identified, as well as some opportunities for prevention, among women in care for HIV in Russia. Awareness-raising and training regarding the adverse consequences of alcohol use among persons with HIV/HCV co-infection should include clinicians, patients and relatives.
Keywords: HIV; Hepatitis C virus; Motivational model of alcohol use; Alcohol use disorder; Mental health

Konstantinos N. Fountoulakis, Grigorios N. Karakatsoulis, Seri Abraham, Kristina Adorjan, Helal Uddin Ahmed, Renato D. Alarcón, Kiyomi Arai, Sani Salihu Auwal, Michael Berk, Sarah Bjedov, Julio Bobes, Teresa Bobes-Bascaran, Julie Bourgin-Duchesnay, Cristina Ana Bredicean, Laurynas Bukelskis, Akaki Burkadze, Indira Indiana Cabrera Abud, Ruby Castilla-Puentes, Marcelo Cetkovich, Hector Colon-Rivera, Ricardo Corral, Carla Cortez-Vergara, Piirika Crepin, Domenico De Berardis, Sergio Zamora Delgado, David De Lucena, Avinash De Sousa, Ramona Di Stefano, Seetal Dodd, Livia Priyanka Elek, Anna Elissa, Berta Erdelyi-Hamza, Gamze Erzin, Martin J. Etchevers, Peter Falkai, Adriana Farcas, Ilya Fedotov, Viktoriia Filatova, Nikolaos K. Fountoulakis, Iryna Frankova, Francesco Franza, Pedro Frias, Tatiana Galako, Cristian J. Garay, Leticia Garcia-Álvarez, Maria Paz García-Portilla, Xenia Gonda, Tomasz M. Gondek, Daniela Morera González, Hilary Gould, Paolo Grandinetti, Arturo Grau, Violeta Groudeva, Michal Hagin, Takayuki Harada, Tasdik M. Hasan, Nurul Azreen Hashim, Jan Hilbig, Sahadat Hossain, Rossitza Iakimova, Mona Ibrahim, Felicia Iftene, Yulia Ignatenko, Matias Irarrazaval, Zaliha Ismail, Jamila Ismayilova, Asaf Jacobs, Miro Jakovljević, Nenad Jakšić, Afzal Javed, Helin Yilmaz Kafali, Sagar Karia, Olga Kazakova, Doaa Khalifa, Olena Khaustova, Steve Koh, Svetlana Kopishinskaia, Korneliia Kosenko, Sotirios A. Koupidis, Illes Kovacs, Barbara Kulig, Alisha Lalljee, Justine Liewig, Abdul Majid, Evgeniia Malashonkova, Khamelia Malik, Najma Iqbal Malik, Gulay Mammadzada, Bilvesh Mandalia, Donatella Marazziti, Darko Marčinko, Stephanie Martinez, Eimantas Matiekus, Gabriela Mejia, Roha Saeed Memon, Xarah Elenne Meza Martínez, Dalia Mickevičiūtė, Roumen Milev, Muftau Mohammed, Alejandro Molina-López, Petr Morozov, Nuru Suleiman Muhammad, Filip Mustač, Mika S. Naor, Amira Nassieb, Alvydas Navickas, Tarek Okasha, Milena Pandova, Anca-Livia Panfil, Liliya Panteleeva, Ion Papava, Mikaella E. Patsali, Alexey Pavlichenko, Bojana Pejuskovic, Mariana Pinto Da Costa, Mikhail Popkov, Dina Popovic, Nor Jannah Nasution Raduan, Francisca Vargas Ramírez, Elmars Rancans, Salmi Razali, Federico Rebok, Anna Rewekant, Elena Ninoska Reyes Flores, María Teresa Rivera-Encinas, Pilar Saiz, Manuel Sánchez de Carmona, David Saucedo Martínez, Jo Anne Saw, Görkem Saygili, Patricia Schneidereit, Bhumika Shah, Tomohiro Shirasaka, Ketevan Silagadze, Satti Sitanggang, Oleg Skugarevsky, Anna Spikina, Sridevi Sira Mahalingappa, Maria Stoyanova, Anna Szczegielniak, Simona Claudia Tamasan, Giuseppe Tavormina, Maurilio Giuseppe Maria Tavormina, Pavlos N. Theodorakis, Mauricio Tohen, Eva Maria Tsapakis, Dina Tukhvatullina, Irfan Ullah, Ratnaraj Vaidya, Johann M. Vega-Dienstmaier, Jelena Vrublevska, Olivera Vukovic, Olga Vysotska, Natalia Widiasih, Anna Yashikhina, Panagiotis E. Prezerakos, Daria Smirnova,
The effect of different degrees of lockdown and self-identified gender on anxiety, depression and suicidality during the COVID-19 pandemic: Data from the international COMET-G study.,
Psychiatry Research,
Volume 315,
2022,
114702,
ISSN 0165-1781,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psychres.2022.114702.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165178122002980)
Abstract: Introduction
During the COVID-19 pandemic various degrees of lockdown were applied by countries around the world. It is considered that such measures have an adverse effect on mental health but the relationship of measure intensity with the mental health effect has not been thoroughly studied. Here we report data from the larger COMET-G study pertaining to this question.
Material and Methods
During the COVID-19 pandemic, data were gathered with an online questionnaire from 55,589 participants from 40 countries (64.85% females aged 35.80 ± 13.61; 34.05% males aged 34.90±13.29 and 1.10% other aged 31.64±13.15). Anxiety was measured with the STAI, depression with the CES-D and suicidality with the RASS. Distress and probable depression were identified with the use of a previously developed cut-off and algorithm respectively.
Statistical Analysis
It included the calculation of Relative Risk (RR), Factorial ANOVA and Multiple backwards stepwise linear regression analysis
Results
Approximately two-thirds were currently living under significant restrictions due to lockdown. For both males and females the risk to develop clinical depression correlated significantly with each and every level of increasing lockdown degree (RR 1.72 and 1.90 respectively). The combined lockdown and psychiatric history increased RR to 6.88 The overall relationship of lockdown with severity of depression, though significant was small.
Conclusions
The current study is the first which reports an almost linear relationship between lockdown degree and effect in mental health. Our findings, support previous suggestions concerning the need for a proactive targeted intervention to protect mental health more specifically in vulnerable groups
Keywords: COVID-19; Depression; Suicidality; Mental health, lockdown, anxiety, mental health history

Daria Makeeva, Tatiana Sall, Danil Moskvichev, Liudmila Kartsova, Stanislav Sitkin, Timur Vakhitov,
CE with Cu2+ ions and 2-hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin additives for the investigation of amino acids composition of the culture medium in a cellular model of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease,
Journal of Pharmaceutical and Biomedical Analysis,
Volume 213,
2022,
114663,
ISSN 0731-7085,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpba.2022.114663.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S073170852200084X)
Abstract: CE method with CuSO4 and 2-hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin additives in sodium acetate background electrolyte pH 4.3 for the simultaneous determination of amino acids and lactic acid was adapted for the comparative study of metabolism in "healthy" and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease model cells HepG2. In vitro model of the disease was developed by exposure HepG2 cells with oleate and palmitate to simulate an excessive flow of fatty acids into hepatocytes. The model was proven to be consistent with the disease pathophysiology, since intracellular triglyceride and cytokine interleukin 8 levels were increased, while cells viability was decreased. In order to check whether the metabolism of amino acids changes in pathology, we proposed sample preparation of culture medium and characterized the CE method by evaluating linear dynamic range, repeatability and intermediate precision of peak areas and migration times, accuracy (recovery rate and trueness estimated by reference method), detection limits and quantitation limits. The method proved to be sensitive, reliable and highly accurate for the quantitation of amino acids and lactic acid. The concentrations of amino acids in the culture medium of healthy and the disease model cells were measured and altered levels of Arg, Ala, Glu, Gln and lactic acid have been found in comparison to health control.
Keywords: Amino acids; Capillary Electrophoresis; Inflammation; Lipogenesis; Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease

I.V. Gorudko, D.V. Grigorieva, E.V. Shamova, N.P. Gorbunov, A.U. Kokhan, V.A. Kostevich, V.B. Vasilyev, O.M. Panasenko, N.V. Khinevich, H.V. Bandarenka, A.A. Burko, A.V. Sokolov,
Structure-biological activity relationships of myeloperoxidase to effect on platelet activation,
Archives of Biochemistry and Biophysics,
Volume 728,
2022,
109353,
ISSN 0003-9861,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.abb.2022.109353.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0003986122002375)
Abstract: Myeloperoxidase (MPO), an oxidant-producing enzyme of neutrophils, has been shown to prime platelet activity promoting immunothrombosis. Native MPO is a homodimer, consisting of two identical protomers (monomer) connected by a single disulfide bond. But in inflammatory foci, MPO can be found both in the form of a monomer and in the form of a dimer. Beside MPO can also be in complexes with other molecules and be modified by oxidants, which ultimately affect its physicochemical properties and functions. Here we compared the effects of various forms of MPO as well as MPO in complex with ceruloplasmin (CP), a physiological inhibitor of MPO, on the platelet activity. Monomeric MPO (hemi-MPO) was obtained by treating the dimeric MPO by reductive alkylation. MPO was modified with HOCl in a molar ratio of 1:100 (MPO-HOCl). Using surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) spectroscopy we showed that peaks at about 510 and 526 cm−1 corresponded to disulfide bond was recognizable in the SERS-spectra of dimeric MPO, absent in the spectrum of hemi-MPO and less intense in the spectra of MPO-HOCl, which indicates the partial decomposition of dimeric MPO with a disulfide bond cleavage under the HOCl modification. It was shown hemi-MPO to a lesser extent than dimeric MPO bound to platelets and enhanced their agonist-induced aggregation and platelet-neutrophil aggregate formation. MPO modified by HOCl and MPO in complex with CP did not bind to platelets and have no effect on platelet activity. Thus, the modification of MPO by HOCl, its presence in monomeric form as well as in complex with CP reduces MPO effect on platelet function and consequently decreases the risk of thrombosis in inflammatory foci.
Keywords: Myeloperoxidase; Monomeric myeloperoxidase; HOCl; Platelet; Ceruloplasmin; Surface-enhanced Raman scattering spectroscopy; Immunothrombosis; Inflammation; Neutrophil

M.V. Danilova, J.D. Mollon,
Bongard and Smirnov on the tetrachromacy of extra-foveal vision,
Vision Research,
Volume 195,
2022,
107952,
ISSN 0042-6989,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.visres.2021.08.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0042698921001887)
Abstract: In Moscow in the 1950′s, the physicist M. M. Bongard developed the use of silent substitution to establish the number of dimensions of human or animal colour vision and to derive colour-matching functions either for whole organisms or for individual neuronal channels. In 1956, he and his colleague M. S. Smirnov reported that extra-foveal human vision was tetrachromatic when tested by the silent-substitution method that they called ‘replacement colorimetry’. In the steady state, trichromatic matches were possible in extra-foveal regions, but transients were visible when one such match was replaced by another. If, however, a match was made with four primaries, then a silent substitution was possible; and such matches – unlike trichromatic ones – were stable with light level and with changes in the state of chromatic adaptation. Bongard and Smirnov believed that the fourth receptor had the spectral sensitivity of the rods, but of course they were working long before the discovery of intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells. On the fiftieth anniversary of Bongard’s grievous death, we provide a translation of Bongard and Smirnov’s paper on the tetrachromacy of extra-foveal vision. In a commentary, we give the background to their work and provide further details of their apparatus and procedure. We briefly discuss related research and the reception in the West of Bongard and Smirnov’s claims. We suggest that an analogy can be made between the tetrachromacy of the parafovea and the ‘weak tetrachromacy’ of heterozygotes for anomalous colour vision, whose trichromatic matches are not stable with chromatic adaptation.
Keywords: Tetrachromacy; Colour matching functions; Silent substitution; Peripheral vision; Rods; Melanopsin

Irina I. Shoshina, Natalia L. Almeida, Milena E.C. Oliveira, Bianca N.T. Trombetta, Gabriella M. Silva, Julien Fars, Natanael A. Santos, Thiago P. Fernandes,
Serum levels of olanzapine are associated with acute cognitive effects in bipolar disorder,
Psychiatry Research,
Volume 310,
2022,
114443,
ISSN 0165-1781,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psychres.2022.114443.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165178122000579)
Abstract: Bipolar (BPD) patients have deficits in cognition, but there are still controversies about the effects of some medications on their cognitive performance. Here, we investigated the relationship between cognition in terms of executive functions, memory, and attention in both first-episode medication-naive BPD patients and BPD patients taking olanzapine. Forty-one healthy controls, 40 unmedicated drug-naive BPD patients, and 34 BPD patients who took only olanzapine were recruited for the study. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Flanker test, Stroop test, and Corsi-block test. Bayesian multivariate regression analysis was run considering maximum robustness to avoid bias and to predict the outcomes. Our results revealed that unmedicated medication-naive BPD patients performed worse than healthy controls and the olanzapine group in some tasks. Additionally, BPD patients who took olanzapine had better cognitive performance than healthy controls and unmedicated BPD patients. The acute cognitive effects were predicted by olanzapine dosage and serum levels (i.e., large effects). The potential pro-cognitive effects of olanzapine in BPD patients should be carefully interpreted by considering various other clinical variables. We expect that our findings will contribute to further research in this area, with the goal of helping other researchers, patients, and the population.
Keywords: Bipolar disorder; Medication; Olanzapine; Serum levels; Cognition; Cognitive tests

Jane Pirkis, David Gunnell, Sangsoo Shin, Marcos Del Pozo-Banos, Vikas Arya, Pablo Analuisa Aguilar, Louis Appleby, S. M. Yasir Arafat, Ella Arensman, Jose Luis Ayuso-Mateos, Yatan Pal Singh Balhara, Jason Bantjes, Anna Baran, Chittaranjan Behera, Jose Bertolote, Guilherme Borges, Michael Bray, Petrana Brečić, Eric Caine, Raffaella Calati, Vladimir Carli, Giulio Castelpietra, Lai Fong Chan, Shu-Sen Chang, David Colchester, Maria Coss-Guzmán, David Crompton, Marko Ćurković, Rakhi Dandona, Eva De Jaegere, Diego De Leo, Eberhard A. Deisenhammer, Jeremy Dwyer, Annette Erlangsen, Jeremy S. Faust, Michele Fornaro, Sarah Fortune, Andrew Garrett, Guendalina Gentile, Rebekka Gerstner, Renske Gilissen, Madelyn Gould, Sudhir Kumar Gupta, Keith Hawton, Franziska Holz, Iurii Kamenshchikov, Navneet Kapur, Alexandr Kasal, Murad Khan, Olivia J. Kirtley, Duleeka Knipe, Kairi Kõlves, Sarah C. Kölzer, Hryhorii Krivda, Stuart Leske, Fabio Madeddu, Andrew Marshall, Anjum Memon, Ellenor Mittendorfer-Rutz, Paul Nestadt, Nikolay Neznanov, Thomas Niederkrotenthaler, Emma Nielsen, Merete Nordentoft, Herwig Oberlerchner, Rory C. O'Connor, Rainer Papsdorf, Timo Partonen, Michael R. Phillips, Steve Platt, Gwendolyn Portzky, Georg Psota, Ping Qin, Daniel Radeloff, Andreas Reif, Christine Reif-Leonhard, Mohsen Rezaeian, Nayda Román-Vázquez, Saska Roskar, Vsevolod Rozanov, Grant Sara, Karen Scavacini, Barbara Schneider, Natalia Semenova, Mark Sinyor, Stefano Tambuzzi, Ellen Townsend, Michiko Ueda, Danuta Wasserman, Roger T. Webb, Petr Winkler, Paul S.F. Yip, Gil Zalsman, Riccardo Zoja, Ann John, Matthew J. Spittal,
Suicide numbers during the first 9-15 months of the COVID-19 pandemic compared with pre-existing trends: An interrupted time series analysis in 33 countries,
eClinicalMedicine,
Volume 51,
2022,
101573,
ISSN 2589-5370,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eclinm.2022.101573.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2589537022003030)
Abstract: Summary
Background
Predicted increases in suicide were not generally observed in the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the picture may be changing and patterns might vary across demographic groups. We aimed to provide a timely, granular picture of the pandemic's impact on suicides globally.
Methods
We identified suicide data from official public-sector sources for countries/areas-within-countries, searching websites and academic literature and contacting data custodians and authors as necessary. We sent our first data request on 22nd June 2021 and stopped collecting data on 31st October 2021. We used interrupted time series (ITS) analyses to model the association between the pandemic's emergence and total suicides and suicides by sex-, age- and sex-by-age in each country/area-within-country. We compared the observed and expected numbers of suicides in the pandemic's first nine and first 10-15 months and used meta-regression to explore sources of variation.
Findings
We sourced data from 33 countries (24 high-income, six upper-middle-income, three lower-middle-income; 25 with whole-country data, 12 with data for area(s)-within-the-country, four with both). There was no evidence of greater-than-expected numbers of suicides in the majority of countries/areas-within-countries in any analysis; more commonly, there was evidence of lower-than-expected numbers. Certain sex, age and sex-by-age groups stood out as potentially concerning, but these were not consistent across countries/areas-within-countries. In the meta-regression, different patterns were not explained by countries’ COVID-19 mortality rate, stringency of public health response, economic support level, or presence of a national suicide prevention strategy. Nor were they explained by countries’ income level, although the meta-regression only included data from high-income and upper-middle-income countries, and there were suggestions from the ITS analyses that lower-middle-income countries fared less well.
Interpretation
Although there are some countries/areas-within-countries where overall suicide numbers and numbers for certain sex- and age-based groups are greater-than-expected, these countries/areas-within-countries are in the minority. Any upward movement in suicide numbers in any place or group is concerning, and we need to remain alert to and respond to changes as the pandemic and its mental health and economic consequences continue.
Funding
None.
Keywords: Suicide; COVID-19; Pandemic; Monitoring

Paul G. Kemps, Jennifer Picarsic, Benjamin H. Durham, Zofia Hélias-Rodzewicz, Laura Hiemcke-Jiwa, Cor van den Bos, Marianne D. van de Wetering, Carel J.M. van Noesel, Jan A.M. van Laar, Robert M. Verdijk, Uta E. Flucke, Pancras C.W. Hogendoorn, F. J. Sherida H. Woei-A-Jin, Raf Sciot, Andreas Beilken, Friedrich Feuerhake, Martin Ebinger, Robert Möhle, Falko Fend, Antje Bornemann, Verena Wiegering, Karen Ernestus, Tina Méry, Olga Gryniewicz-Kwiatkowska, Bozenna Dembowska-Baginska, Dmitry A. Evseev, Vsevolod Potapenko, Vadim V. Baykov, Stefania Gaspari, Sabrina Rossi, Marco Gessi, Gianpiero Tamburrini, Sébastien Héritier, Jean Donadieu, Jacinthe Bonneau-Lagacherie, Claire Lamaison, Laure Farnault, Sylvie Fraitag, Marie-Laure Jullié, Julien Haroche, Matthew Collin, Jackie Allotey, Majid Madni, Kerry Turner, Susan Picton, Pasquale M. Barbaro, Alysa Poulin, Ingrid S. Tam, Dina El Demellawy, Brianna Empringham, James A. Whitlock, Aditya Raghunathan, Amy A. Swanson, Mariko Suchi, Jon M. Brandt, Nabeel R. Yaseen, Joanna L. Weinstein, Irem Eldem, Bryan A. Sisk, Vaishnavi Sridhar, Mandy Atkinson, Lucas R. Massoth, Jason L. Hornick, Sanda Alexandrescu, Kee Kiat Yeo, Kseniya Petrova-Drus, Stephen Z. Peeke, Laura S. Muñoz-Arcos, Daniel G. Leino, David D. Grier, Robert Lorsbach, Somak Roy, Ashish R. Kumar, Shipra Garg, Nishant Tiwari, Kristian T. Schafernak, Michael M. Henry, Astrid G.S. van Halteren, Oussama Abla, Eli L. Diamond, Jean-François Emile,
ALK-positive histiocytosis: a new clinicopathologic spectrum highlighting neurologic involvement and responses to ALK inhibition,
Blood,
Volume 139, Issue 2,
2022,
Pages 256-280,
ISSN 0006-4971,
https://doi.org/10.1182/blood.2021013338.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006497121018218)
Abstract: Abstract
ALK-positive histiocytosis is a rare subtype of histiocytic neoplasm first described in 2008 in 3 infants with multisystemic disease involving the liver and hematopoietic system. This entity has subsequently been documented in case reports and series to occupy a wider clinicopathologic spectrum with recurrent KIF5B-ALK fusions. The full clinicopathologic and molecular spectra of ALK-positive histiocytosis remain, however, poorly characterized. Here, we describe the largest study of ALK-positive histiocytosis to date, with detailed clinicopathologic data of 39 cases, including 37 cases with confirmed ALK rearrangements. The clinical spectrum comprised distinct clinical phenotypic groups: infants with multisystemic disease with liver and hematopoietic involvement, as originally described (Group 1A: 6/39), other patients with multisystemic disease (Group 1B: 10/39), and patients with single-system disease (Group 2: 23/39). Nineteen patients of the entire cohort (49%) had neurologic involvement (7 and 12 from Groups 1B and 2, respectively). Histology included classic xanthogranuloma features in almost one-third of cases, whereas the majority displayed a more densely cellular, monomorphic appearance without lipidized histiocytes but sometimes more spindled or epithelioid morphology. Neoplastic histiocytes were positive for macrophage markers and often conferred strong expression of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase, confirming MAPK pathway activation. KIF5B-ALK fusions were detected in 27 patients, whereas CLTC-ALK, TPM3-ALK, TFG-ALK, EML4-ALK, and DCTN1-ALK fusions were identified in single cases. Robust and durable responses were observed in 11/11 patients treated with ALK inhibition, 10 with neurologic involvement. This study presents the existing clinicopathologic and molecular landscape of ALK-positive histiocytosis and provides guidance for the clinical management of this emerging histiocytic entity.

Zamira M. Muruzheva, Dmitrii S. Traktirov, Olga S. Tumashova, Marina N. Karpenko,
Cluster analysis of clinical, biochemical and electrophysiological features of essential tremor patients. Exploratory study,
Clinical Neurology and Neurosurgery,
Volume 222,
2022,
107472,
ISSN 0303-8467,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clineuro.2022.107472.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0303846722003535)
Abstract: Background
Essential tremor (ET) is one of the most common movement disorders. The clinical heterogeneity of ET has been studied for many years, however, there are practically no comprehensive studies dedicated to the assessment of biochemical and electrophysiological parameters associated with the severity of motor and non-motor disorders present in patients with ET and taking into account their heterogeneity.
Objectives
The objective of this report is to differentiate subgroups of essential tremor using cluster analysis of clinical, biochemical and electrophysiological parameters.
Methods
The study enrolled 90 patients with ET. Clustering was perform on the demographic data, scores of scales FTMS, ADL, MoCA, Beka, surface electromyographic data, levels of serum IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, TNFα, uric acid, ceruloplasmin, MDA.
Results
Based on the analysis of the severity of motor manifestations, the psychoemotional state, the adaptive potential of patients and the biochemical aspects of the pathogenesis, three relatively homogeneous clusters of ET were identified.
Conclusions
Revealing the heterogeneity of essential tremor allows to expand understanding the pathogenesis of disease.
Keywords: Essential tremor; Clinical heterogeneity; Surface electromyographic; Cytokines; Cognitive impairment

Vsevolod Lyakhovetskii, Polina Shkorbatova, Oleg Gorskii, Pavel Musienko,
Forward Stepping Evoked by Transvertebral Stimulation in the Decerebrate Cat,
Neuromodulation: Technology at the Neural Interface,
2022,
,
ISSN 1094-7159,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neurom.2022.11.009.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1094715922013733)
Abstract: Objectives
Implantation of stimulating electrodes into the basement of the vertebral spinous process allows the electrodes to be quickly and stably fixed relative to the spinal cord. Using this approach, we have previously shown the selectivity of rat muscle activation during transvertebral stimulation (TS). In this work, we investigated the TS to induce forward stepping of the cat's hindlimbs in comparison with epidural stimulation (ES).
Materials and Methods
TS was performed with an electrode placed in the VL3–VL6 vertebrae in five decerebrated cats. ES was performed on the same cats in L5–L7 segments. Kinematic parameters of stepping were recorded in addition to electromyographic activity of musculus (m.) iliopsoas (IP), m. tibialis anterior (TA), and m. gastrocnemius lateralis (GL) of both hindlimbs.
Results
With VL3–VL4 TS, all five animals were capable of bipedal forward stepping, whereas VL5 and VL6 TS led to the forward stepping in 3 of 5 and 1 of 5 animals, respectively. Well-coordinated muscle activity led to a high level of intra- and interlimb coordination. Kinematic parameters of TS-induced stepping were similar to those obtained with ES. The TS of the VL3 vertebra causes the frequency lock with the integer multiple of the stimulation frequency. Similarly to the rat model, TS-evoked muscle responses were site specific. They were minimal during VL3 TS and were maximal during VL4–VL5 TS (IP) and VL5–VL6 TS (TA, GL).
Conclusions
The obtained results support hypotheses about the location of the central pattern generators in the upper lumbar spinal segments. The proposed approach of electrode placement is surgically easier to perform than is ES. This approach is useful for studying site-specific neuromodulation of the spinal sensorimotor networks and for investigating new strategies of locomotor recovery in animal models.
Keywords: Central pattern generators; decerebrate cat; locomotion; spinal cord; transvertebral stimulation

Azam Rahmani, Elahe Afsharnia, Julia Fedotova, Shirin Shahbazi, Arezoo Fallahi, Leila Allahqoli, Reza Ghanei-Gheshlagh, Sarah Abboud, Ibrahim Alkatout,
Sexual Function and Mood Disorders Among Menopausal Women: A Systematic Scoping Review,
The Journal of Sexual Medicine,
Volume 19, Issue 7,
2022,
Pages 1098-1115,
ISSN 1743-6095,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsxm.2022.03.614.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1743609522012516)
Abstract: Background
Changes in sex hormones during menopause may have detrimental effects on a woman's sexual function and cause mood disorders. The treatment of both conditions is a challenge in gynecology.
Aim
To review the published literature on sexual function and mood disorders among peri- and postmenopausal women.
Methods
The review is based on the methodological framework of scoping reviews. We searched electronic databases including Medline (PubMed), Scopus, Embase, and Web of Science (WoS). Publications that reported data about the relationship between sexual function and mood disorders among menopausal women were included in the review. The search was not subject to any limitation in terms of time or method.
Outcomes
The main outcome measures used for the review were sexual dysfunction and mood disorders.
Results
We found 106 total records. After a full-text screening we included 19 studies from 1986 to 2020 based on various methodologies; the majority of the studies16 were cross-sectional. Investigations that addressed the symptoms of mood disorders and some domains of sexual function showed a close relationship between sexual dysfunction and mood disorders among menopausal women.
Clinical implications
In clinical practice, it would be appropriate to screen women for at least one mood disorder or sexual dysfunction. If a woman suffers from either, it will be necessary to assess for a further disorder as well.
Strengths & Limitations
The review was based on a detailed search of the published literature concerning mood disorders and sexual dysfunction among menopausal women compared to women of reproductive age. Despite the clinical importance of the subject, the number of studies eligible for inclusion in the review are rather small. Further investigation of the topic is clearly warranted.
Conclusions
While the association between sexual dysfunction and mood disorders appears to be bidirectional, future studies will have to investigate the specific mechanisms by which sexual dysfunction could lead to mood disorders (or vice versa). Future studies should specifically address sexual dysfunctions and attitudes of partners, BMI, family support, sleep, and multiparity. Azam Rahmani, Elahe Afsharnia, Julia Fedotova, Shirin Shahbazi, Arezoo Fallahi, Leila Allahqoli, Reza GhaneipoklGheshlagh, Sarah Abboud, Ibrahim Alkatout. Sexual Function and Mood Disorders Among Menopausal Women: A Systematic Scoping Review. J Sex Med 2022;19:1098–1115.
Keywords: Depression; Mood Disorder; Sexual Health; Menopause; Systematic Review

Michael H. Albert, Mary A. Slatter, Andrew R. Gennery, Tayfun Güngör, Katerina Bakunina, Benyamin Markovitch, Sheree Hazelaar, Tiarlan Sirait, Virginie Courteille, Alessandro Aiuti, Olga V. Aleinikova, Dmitry Balashov, Maria Ester Bernardo, Ivana Bodova, Benedicte Bruno, Marina Cavazzana, Robert Chiesa, Alain Fischer, Fabian Hauck, Marianne Ifversen, Krzysztof Kałwak, Christoph Klein, Alexander Kulagin, Alphan Kupesiz, Baris Kuskonmaz, Caroline A. Lindemans, Franco Locatelli, Su Han Lum, Alexey Maschan, Roland Meisel, Despina Moshous, Fulvio Porta, Martin G. Sauer, Petr Sedlacek, Ansgar Schulz, Felipe Suarez, Tanja C. Vallée, Jacek H. Winiarski, Marco Zecca, Bénédicte Neven, Paul Veys, Arjan C. Lankester,
Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome: an EBMT Inborn Errors Working Party analysis,
Blood,
Volume 139, Issue 13,
2022,
Pages 2066-2079,
ISSN 0006-4971,
https://doi.org/10.1182/blood.2021014687.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006497122001422)
Abstract: Abstract
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a potentially curative treatment for patients affected by Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS). Reported HSCT outcomes have improved over time with respect to overall survival, but some studies have identified older age and HSCT from alternative donors as risk factors predicting poorer outcome. We analyzed 197 patients undergoing transplant at European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation centers between 2006 and 2017 who received conditioning as recommended by the Inborn Errors Working Party (IEWP): either busulfan (n = 103) or treosulfan (n = 94) combined with fludarabine ± thiotepa. After a median follow-up post-HSCT of 44.9 months, 176 patients were alive, resulting in a 3-year overall survival of 88.7% and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)-free survival (events include death, graft failure, and severe chronic GVHD) of 81.7%. Overall survival and chronic GVHD-free survival were not significantly affected by conditioning regimen (busulfan- vs treosulfan-based), donor type (matched sibling donor/matched family donor vs matched unrelated donor/mismatched unrelated donor vs mismatched family donor), or period of HSCT (2006-2013 vs 2014-2017). Patients aged <5 years at HSCT had a significantly better overall survival. The overall cumulative incidences of grade III to IV acute GVHD and extensive/moderate/severe chronic GVHD were 6.6% and 2.1%, respectively. Patients receiving treosulfan-based conditioning had a higher incidence of graft failure and mixed donor chimerism and more frequently underwent secondary procedures (second HSCT, unconditioned stem cell boost, donor lymphocyte infusion, or splenectomy). In summary, HSCT for WAS with conditioning regimens currently recommended by IEWP results in excellent survival and low rates of GVHD, regardless of donor or stem cell source, but age ≥5 years remains a risk factor for overall survival.

T.V. Zhilyaeva, E.D. Kasyanov, I.V. Semennov, G.V. Rukavishnikov, A.S. Piatoikina, O.V. Kostina, E.V. Verbitskaya, G.E. Mazo,
Tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency in schizophrenia: Biochemical and clinical aspects,
Journal of Psychiatric Research,
Volume 153,
2022,
Pages 141-148,
ISSN 0022-3956,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpsychires.2022.07.020.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022395622003843)
Abstract: It was reported that the levels of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) are reduced in schizophrenia. However, mechanisms of BH4 deficiency in schizophrenia had not been studied precisely. Objective: the search of the association between BH4 deficiency in schizophrenia and a range of biochemical and clinical parameters for the evaluation of the possible mechanisms of BH4 loss and its role in the development of the symptoms. Methods: 93 patients with schizophrenia and 60 healthy volunteers were randomly selected and evaluated with a biochemical examination of BH4, folate, cobalamin (B12), homocysteine, C-reactive protein (CRP), reduced glutathione (GSH) levels in the blood serum.Patients underwent standardized psychopathological examination. Results: In patients, the levels of BH4 and folate were lower (p = 0.001 and p = 0.054, respectively), and the levels of homocysteine were higher (p = 0.012) compared to the control group. BH4 levels directly moderately correlated with folate (ρ = 0.43; p = 0.0029) and B12 levels (ρ = 0.43; p = 0.0020) and inversely moderately correlated with homocysteine levels (ρ = −0.54; p = 0.00015) in patients. Cluster analysis identified schizophrenia biotype characterized by a deficiency of BH4, folate, B12, and hyperhomocysteinemia. The clinical characteristics of this biotype were not specific. CRP and GSH were higher in patients compared to controls, but their association with serum BH4 was not confirmed.

Thiago P. Fernandes, Irina I. Shoshina, Milena E.C. Oliveira, Vershinina E. Andreevna, Gabriella M. Silva, Natanael A. Santos,
Correlates of clinical variables on early-stage visual processing in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder,
Journal of Psychiatric Research,
Volume 149,
2022,
Pages 323-330,
ISSN 0022-3956,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpsychires.2022.03.014.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022395622001352)
Abstract: The use of noninvasive tools can help understand mental states and changes that are caused by medications, symptom severity, and other clinical variables. We investigated low-level visual processing using the contrast sensitivity function (CSF), a reliable, robust, and widely used approach. Our main purpose was (1) to evaluate visual impairments in schizophrenia (SCZ) and bipolar disorder (BPD) patients and (2) to investigate associations between clinical variables and visual function in both diseases. Fifty-six healthy controls (HCs; mean age = 31.04 years), 42 BPD patients (mean age = 32.84 years) who took only lithium, and 39 SCZ patients who took only olanzapine (mean age = 32.80 years) were recruited for this study. CSF differed between groups. Both groups of patients exhibited lower discrimination at low, mid-, and high spatial frequencies compared with HCs. No differences were observed between patients, with the exception of high spatial frequency. These impairments were also related to clinical variables, revealed by a strong effect in the mediation analyses. These findings may aid investigations of other clinical variables and the role of state- and trait-like effects on visual and cognitive processing in these patient populations. This study underscores the need for visual remediation interventions.
Keywords: Schizophrenia; Bipolar disorder; Visual system; Contrast sensitivity function; Medication; Clinical variables

Maxim S. Afanasiev, Alexander D. Dushkin, Tatyana G. Grishacheva, Stanislav S. Afanasiev, Alexander V. Karaulov Academician,
Photodynamic therapy for early-stage cervical cancer treatment,
Photodiagnosis and Photodynamic Therapy,
Volume 37,
2022,
102620,
ISSN 1572-1000,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pdpdt.2021.102620.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1572100021004385)
Abstract: Background
The aim of this article is a retrospective analysis of PDT effectiveness in the treatment in early-stage cervical cancer and also analysis of HPV elimination via PDT
Material and methods
A total of 28 patients were analyzed retrospectively, all with PDT treatment for early-stage cervical cancer. Patients underwent one PDT session or a multi-course PDT approach. This depended on individual reaction and response to therapy after the first session. A multi-course approach was performed over two months. Treatments were performed from 2015 to 2020. Relapse-free probability was assessed for these patients by Kaplan Meier estimator at 60 months and HPV elimiantion was also examined..
Results
HPV elimination was in 82% of cases in three-month period after PDT (R2 = 0.71). Among the analyzed cases, full HPV elimination was detected in more than 90% of cases. Relapse-free probability from cervical cancer is 0,8 (CI95%: 0,53–1) at 60 months. Patients had mild (35.7%) and severe (28.6%) leucocyte reactions after PDT in three months.
Conclusion
The article demonstrates treatment results for CC and detected a five-year period relapse-free probability after PDT. Patients completing a multi-treatment PDT protocol for invasive cervical cancer can achieve both high response rate and relapse-free survival.
Keywords: Photodynamic therapy; Cervical cancer; Human papillomavirus; Immune response

Olga Aleshina, I. Galtseva, E. Kotova, S. Bondarenko, A. Antipova, E. Borisenkova, O. Samoilova, M. Grishunina, T. Konstantinova, Yu. Sveshnikova, N. Minaeva, S. Kulikov, Yu. Chabaeva, H. Julhakyan, E. Parovichnikova,
ALL-056 Late Intensification With Autologous HSCT After Non-Myeloablative CEAM Conditioning Can't Improve Results of Therapy in Adults With T-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) Treated by Non-Intensive Protocol: Data of the Multicentral Prospective Randomized RALL Study,
Clinical Lymphoma Myeloma and Leukemia,
Volume 22, Supplement 2,
2022,
Page S191,
ISSN 2152-2650,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2152-2650(22)01177-6.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2152265022011776)
Abstract: Background: The Russian ALL group applied a protocol based on a less intensive and also non-interruptive approach. RALL-2009 study showed that fulfilled auto-hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in T-cell ALL could reliably improve disease free survival (DFS). This is a non-randomized trial, and selection is limited to patients with auto-HSCT vs chemotherapy (ChT) only. Aim: To appreciate the role of fulfilled auto-HSCT in T-ALL adult patients treated by RALL-2006 protocol. Patients: In RALL-2016 protocol all T-ALL patients who achieved complete response (CR) were brought to randomization after the informed consent to one of two groups: auto-HSCT vs ChT only. 267 Ph-negative ALL adult patients were included from Dec 2016 until Apr 2022. 111 patients had T-ALL, 74% were male, and median age was 31. Results: 5y overall survival (OS) and DFS in T-ALL patients were 68% and 66%, respectively. We observed that early T-cell precursor (ETP)-ALL is group of patients with reliably poor prognosis, with high probability of relapse (PR) (52% in 1st year after CR). 87 T-ALL patients (pts) were randomized: 43 pts to ChT, and 44 to auto-HSCT. 1 patient refused in ChT group, and 4 refused in auto-HSCT; patients were censored on data of refuse. We observed similar number of deaths in CR in both arms, and similar cases of patients who went to allo-HSCT – mixed-lineage leukemia (MLL) leukemia, Niimegem syndrome or long MRD persistence). 25 auto-HSCT were done. For transplanted patients: time from CR to transplant was 7 months. All pts were conditioned with iomustine, etoposide, cytarabine, and melphalan (CEAM) before auto-HSCT. Maintenance start was 1.5 months after HSCT. Transplant-related mortality was 5%. Landmark analysis from a median of 7 months post-HSCT, didn't detect differences in DFS and PR (67% vs 78%, and 25% vs 22% auto-HSCT vs ChT). Auto-HSCT does not improve DFS in T-ALL with MRD after induction. In both auto-HSCT and only ChT groups with MRD persistence after induction have poor DFS (MRD-: 86% vs 81% and MRD+: 67% and 40%, respectively ChT vs auto-HSCT). Conclusions: We didn't detect that auto-HCST could improve long-term result for T-cell ALL. ETP-phenotype is an independent poor prognostic factor. Addition of auto-HSCT as late high-dose consolidation for T-ALL with MRD persistence does not improve results of therapy.
Keywords: ALL; acute lymphoblastic leukemias; autologous stem cell transplantation; T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia

Rinad S. Minvaleev, Rinat R. Bogdanov, Andrej A. Kuznetsov, David P. Bahner, Alexander B. Levitov,
Yogic agnisara increases blood flow in the superior mesenteric artery,
Journal of Bodywork and Movement Therapies,
Volume 31,
2022,
Pages 97-101,
ISSN 1360-8592,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbmt.2022.04.004.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1360859222000687)
Abstract: Objectives
Medieval yoga texts claim that a special exercise of the muscles of the anterior abdominal wall, called agnisara, improves digestive function. Main objective of the study was to demonstrate change in the blood flow through superior mesenteric artery (if any) after performance of agnisara.
Methods
Ultrasound examination of the linear and volumetric indicators of blood flow in the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) before and after performing the agnisara yoga exercise 100 times was carried out in 12 healthy volunteers of both sexes (8 of them women).
Results
A significant increase in the diameter of the SMA, peak systolic and diastolic velocities, and blood flow in the superior mesenteric artery after performing the agnisara exercise 100 times was found, which contrasts with the established data on a decrease in splanchnic blood flow in humans in response to normal physical activity.
Conclusion
Properly performed agnisara increases blood flow to the splanchnic region, registered by the SMA, which should contribute to adequate blood supply to the gastrointestinal tract for successful performance of digestive function.
Keywords: ultrasound Doppler flowmetry; Superior mesenteric artery; Exercise; Agnisara; Uddiyana bandha

Freddy J K Toloza, Arash Derakhshan, Tuija Männistö, Sofie Bliddal, Polina V Popova, David M Carty, Liangmiao Chen, Peter Taylor, Lorena Mosso, Emily Oken, Eila Suvanto, Sachiko Itoh, Reiko Kishi, Judit Bassols, Juha Auvinen, Abel López-Bermejo, Suzanne J Brown, Laura Boucai, Aya Hisada, Jun Yoshinaga, Ekaterina Shilova, Elena N Grineva, Tanja G M Vrijkotte, Jordi Sunyer, Ana Jiménez-Zabala, Isolina Riaño-Galan, Maria-Jose Lopez-Espinosa, Larry J Prokop, Naykky Singh Ospina, Juan P Brito, Rene Rodriguez-Gutierrez, Erik K Alexander, Layal Chaker, Elizabeth N Pearce, Robin P Peeters, Ulla Feldt-Rasmussen, Mònica Guxens, Leda Chatzi, Christian Delles, Jeanine E Roeters van Lennep, Victor J M Pop, Xuemian Lu, John P Walsh, Scott M Nelson, Tim I M Korevaar, Spyridoula Maraka,
Association between maternal thyroid function and risk of gestational hypertension and pre-eclampsia: a systematic review and individual-participant data meta-analysis,
The Lancet Diabetes & Endocrinology,
Volume 10, Issue 4,
2022,
Pages 243-252,
ISSN 2213-8587,
https://doi.org/10.1016/S2213-8587(22)00007-9.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213858722000079)
Abstract: Summary
Background
Adequate maternal thyroid function is important for an uncomplicated pregnancy. Although multiple observational studies have evaluated the association between thyroid dysfunction and hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, the methods and definitions of abnormalities in thyroid function tests were heterogeneous, and the results were conflicting. We aimed to examine the association between abnormalities in thyroid function tests and risk of gestational hypertension and pre-eclampsia.
Methods
In this systematic review and meta-analysis of individual-participant data, we searched MEDLINE (Ovid), Embase, Scopus, and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews from date of inception to Dec 27, 2019, for prospective cohort studies with data on maternal concentrations of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), free thyroxine (FT4), thyroid peroxidase (TPO) antibodies, individually or in combination, as well as on gestational hypertension, pre-eclampsia, or both. We issued open invitations to study authors to participate in the Consortium on Thyroid and Pregnancy and to share the individual-participant data. We excluded participants who had pre-existing thyroid disease or multifetal pregnancy, or were taking medications that affect thyroid function. The primary outcomes were documented gestational hypertension and pre-eclampsia. Individual-participant data were analysed using logistic mixed-effects regression models adjusting for maternal age, BMI, smoking, parity, ethnicity, and gestational age at blood sampling. The study protocol was registered with PROSPERO, CRD42019128585.
Findings
We identified 1539 published studies, of which 33 cohorts met the inclusion criteria and 19 cohorts were included after the authors agreed to participate. Our study population comprised 46 528 pregnant women, of whom 39 826 (85·6%) women had sufficient data (TSH and FT4 concentrations and TPO antibody status) to be classified according to their thyroid function status. Of these women, 1275 (3·2%) had subclinical hypothyroidism, 933 (2·3%) had isolated hypothyroxinaemia, 619 (1·6%) had subclinical hyperthyroidism, and 337 (0·8%) had overt hyperthyroidism. Compared with euthyroidism, subclinical hypothyroidism was associated with a higher risk of pre-eclampsia (2·1% vs 3·6%; OR 1·53 [95% CI 1·09–2·15]). Subclinical hyperthyroidism, isolated hypothyroxinaemia, or TPO antibody positivity were not associated with gestational hypertension or pre-eclampsia. In continuous analyses, both a higher and a lower TSH concentration were associated with a higher risk of pre-eclampsia (p=0·0001). FT4 concentrations were not associated with the outcomes measured.
Interpretation
Compared with euthyroidism, subclinical hypothyroidism during pregnancy was associated with a higher risk of pre-eclampsia. There was a U-shaped association of TSH with pre-eclampsia. These results quantify the risks of gestational hypertension or pre-eclampsia in women with thyroid function test abnormalities, adding to the total body of evidence on the risk of adverse maternal and fetal outcomes of thyroid dysfunction during pregnancy. These findings have potential implications for defining the optimal treatment target in women treated with levothyroxine during pregnancy, which needs to be assessed in future interventional studies.
Funding
Arkansas Biosciences Institute and Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research.

Arnon Nagler, Myriam Labopin, Bhagirathbhai Dholaria, Depei Wu, Goda Choi, Mahmoud Aljurf, Fabio Ciceri, Tobias Gedde-Dahl, Ellen Meijer, Riitta Niittyvuopio, Sergey Bondarenko, Jean Henri Bourhis, Jan J. Cornelissen, Gerard Socié, Yener Koc, Jonathan Canaani, Bipin Savani, Gesine Bug, Alexandros Spyridonidis, Sebastian Giebel, Eolia Brissot, Ali Bazarbachi, Jordi Esteve, Mohamad Mohty,
Graft-versus-Host Disease Prophylaxis with Post-Transplantation Cyclophosphamide versus Cyclosporine A and Methotrexate in Matched Sibling Donor Transplantation,
Transplantation and Cellular Therapy,
Volume 28, Issue 2,
2022,
Pages 86.e1-86.e8,
ISSN 2666-6367,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtct.2021.11.013.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666636721013609)
Abstract: ABSTRACT
Cyclosporine A (CSA) and methotrexate (MTX) is the standard graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis regimen for matched sibling donor (MSD) allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT). Recently, post-transplantation cyclophosphamide (PTCy) has been shown to be effective in GVHD prevention. In this registry-based study, we compared outcomes of 118 patients treated with PTCy and 1202 patients with CSA/MTX who underwent MSD allo-HCT for acute myelogenous leukemia. In a matched-pair analysis, PTCy was associated with a higher incidence of relapse at 2 years compared with CSA/MTX (41.1% versus 21.3%; P = .039). The incidences of day +180 grade II-IV acute GVHD and 2-year chronic GVHD were comparable in the PTCy and CSA/MTX arms (25.2% versus 25.4% [P = .90] and 42.6% versus 42.6% [P = .84], respectively). Similarly, 2-year leukemia-free survival (LFS; 54.4% versus 74.32%; P = .052), overall survival (OS; 70.6% versus 79.7%; P = .15), and GVHD-free relapse-free survival (GRFS; 38.1% versus 52.5%; P = .49) were not statistically different in the 2 arms. Our data show that GVHD prophylaxis with PTCy is feasible, resulting in similar incidences of GVHD, GRFS, LFS, and OS as seen with conventional CSA/MTX in patients undergoing allo-HCT from an MSD. The higher rate of relapse observed with PTCy needs further evaluation in a prospective study. © 2021 American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Keywords: Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation; Acute myelogenous leukemia; Post-transplantation cyclophosphamide; Acute leukemia; Graft-versus-host disease
